                                          Gather game


Time         Task                              Progress

10/30 7 pm   Create Preliminary Design         See section: Preliminary Design Ideas/ Production
                                               Requirements below

10/30 7 pm   Brainstorm Aesthetics Goals       See section: Aesthetic Goals below

10/30 7 pm   Brainstorm Core Loop              See section: Core Loop below

11/1 5 pm    Create Player, Helper, and           -     Built objects for the player, helper platform
             Strawberries objects                       objects, and strawberry
                                                            - Created empty objects with a basic
                                                                 sprite in place, and added rigid bodies,
                                                                 colliders, and sprite renderers.


11/1 5 pm    Create movement scripts for          -     coded preliminary movements of objects
             objects                                       - The player moves left and right at a
                                                               fixed speed and jumps up by applying a
                                                               force
                                                           - The helper platform moves up down left
                                                               right at a fixed speed
                                                           - Strawberry falls from the sky after
                                                               being randomly spawned at a random x
                                                               from the top of the screen

11/1 5 pm    Create Sprites                       -     Hand drew all the sprites for each of the objects
                                                        on notability and removed the background

11/1 5 pm    Started working on the score         -     Created a score and timer class, where the score
             and timer objects                          should count down by one and the timer should
                                                        count down from a designated time

11/2 11 am   Create Win/Lose scenes               -     Created win/lose scenes and buttons that
                                                        redirect to the starting screen
                                                  -     Constrained items so they no longer flip over
                                                  -     Created a timer script that counts down
                                                  -     Continued working on scoring logic

11/2 6 pm    Fill win/lose condition              -     Made timer turn red when time less than 5
                                                        seconds
                                                  -     Made counter turn green when score more than
                                                        10
                                                  -     Made minimum score of 0

11/2 6 pm    Create blueberries                   -     Created blueberry item that decreases score by
                                                        one when user collides with them
                                                  -     Set the winning screen when the timer is up and
                                                        the score >=10, else set to losing screen after
                                                                the timer is up

11/2 8 pm              Create Credits + instructions        -   Wrote instructions and credit document
                       document

11/2 8 pm              Wrote Postmortem                     -   Wrote the postmortem



   Preliminary Design Ideas/ Production Requirements
       - The player moves around the screen using the up, down, left, and right keys
       - The platform moves around using w, a, s, d keys
       - The player must gather enough falling objects from the sky before time runs up

            How it satisfies the requirements:
                    Moving object 1: Player
                    Moving object 2: Platform
                    Moving object 3: Gathered item

                   Interaction 1& 3: player collects the gathered item
                   Interaction 1& 2: player jumps off of the platform
                   Interaction 2&3: item collides with platform and disappears after 5 seconds

                   Sound 1: item collected
                   Sound 2: footstep when the player hits the platform

                   UI score: X/ X items to collect
                   UI time: XX:XX seconds left

   Aesthetic Goals
           Immersion: Create a world that is captivating with a coherent logic background system
                       - Successful if players feel connected to the world and find the game entertaining
                       - Unsuccessful if players report being bored by the game
           Rapid Gratification/ simple gratification: provide immediate reward and feedback for a short and
           simple game
                       - Successful if users experience frequent reward feedback keeping them
                           entertained
                       - Unsuccessful if users lose repeatedly without getting rewards or feedback in the
                           game

   Core Loop
   The player moves the platform, player jumps on the platform, the player collects the item


   Post Mortem
Summarize what you originally set out to do
My goal was to create a game where the player could move both the player icon and the platform icon so
the combination could move around on the screen and collect the items that fall. The platform and the
player do not move super quickly, which requires the combination of the player and the platform to move
relatively synchronized in order to move to the strawberries that fall and disappear after some time when
hitting the ground.

Summarize what your goals ended up being by the end
My goal was pretty similar to what it was in the beginning. For entertainment purposes, I added a
blueberry element that falls from the sky which behaves similarly to the strawberry but needs to be
avoided by the player since it takes off points. This adds a level of interaction that increases the difficulty
of the game somewhat and prevents the player from just moving back and forth and the top of the screen,
where the strawberries spawn, and actually being involved in the game.

Summarize what you accomplished in those goals
I believe I met these goals quite well since I finished the goals that I set for myself and also created sprites
that tell a relatively coherent story, which made sense for the player and the player to understand the goal
of the game relatively well. The sprites work as intended and are difficult enough to require the player to
pay attention and try the game a few times.

What went right?
The behavior that I chose for the components is relatively simple. Still, it's the combination that makes the
game relatively entertaining to play, and the combination of time intervals, speed, and movement makes
the game winnable without being too easy.

What went wrong?
Many debugging attempts were required to get the behavior of the items just right, but it mostly worked
out in the game. There is a behavior that I wanted to do better, which is the respawning of items when
moved off-screen. I would rather have the item respawn at a fixed point but feared that items would
spawn into others, and simply let all the items spawn at the top of the screen.

What do you wish you knew at the start of the project that you know now?
I wish that I knew more about how to calculate how long the intervals and how fast the speeds of each
process should be, because I mostly found those by trial and error, and it’d be really nice to have a plan
for more complicated games.

What did you learn in the process?
I learned how to add a background to the games as well as create a realistic jumping movement when
combined with other movement instructions. I also learned how to make the components not rotate and
flip them in gameplay.
